# 4. Communicating
## DH Exploration Exercise
### Changyi Zhang

# Intro
Regarding Amalia Skarlatou Levi’s thread on twitter regarding Digital History, I had been quite overwhelmed in selecting the right resource to choose for this exercise. However I was suddenly enlightened when I had revisited one of the readings from part 1: Leon, S. 2016.‘Returning Women to the History of Digital History’. There was a particular line detailing how the history of Digital History seems to be that of a stagnant and or completed history, devoid of women. This could also be further applied to not only women, but also topics of more marginalized groups or identities. 

Hence I chose the 6th resource in Amalia Skarlatou Levi’s thread regarding the 19th century Concord Digital Archive as the archive looks to take the history of Digital History and show more interactions with marginalized groups that aren’t as constant in being recorded within said text documents. 

# Wget
The very first thought I had when asking myself how to find any amusing historical observations or draw any conclusions from said data. Wget from my use in this course has proved very useful as it is convenience to a T.  The ease of access and the flexibility of Wget is further proof of such an amazing tool.Despite the initial issues that I ran into, such as forgetting to be in the same directory as wget, I was able to wget many webpages from the digital concord archive page and download them into many individual html files. The main issue was my unfamiliarity with scripts. The python scripts in the python tutorial were for looping numbers, however I had a hard time figuring out how to setup a script for webpages with no seemingly regular pattern. Therefore I felt the easiest way would have been a brute labor method and going to each individual site and wgeting it. 

I did run into many small issues with certain websites being unable to load or download, such as digitalconcord-legacy.tamu.edu/maps/map (not hyperlinked as it doesn’t work). Somewhat similar to the link to Caswell, M. ‘Seeing Yourself in History: Community Archives and the Fight Against Symbolic Annihilation’. The Public Historian 2014, 36, 26–37, doi:10.1525/tph.2014.36.4.26. However the difference is that in my example, it cannot reach the server it looks like, whereas regarding Caswell, it looks to be deactivated.These webpages looked to just be dead websites, I had even taken a look using the wayback machine from a 2016 snapshot, however the results led nowhere. Regarding wget, I was also able to download a map file regarding the google map overlay of 1852 Concord Massachusetts, a kmz file in which I will be discussing at a later date. 

When trying to load the files that Wget had provided, there were some issues, as it would not let me open the files (presumably mostly html) using chrome. This looked to be an issue regarding windows 11 as it just didn’t even attempt to use chrome as an option, forcing me to manually search through my computer to find the executable for Chrome. However, using Firefox proved to be well worth it as it loaded the website just fine. The website displayed seemed to be a little bit older and not as polished as the current website look live, but it was fine for the most part. The biggest issue by far was the inability to load hyperlinks or navigate past that one individual html page. To my limited knowledge, this is where an index html file would prove handy for web design or web developing, as it could be the one to tell which page goes to what html file, or just act like a table of contents. I ran into a stump here, looking at what other historical observations I could observe. Which led me to my next train of thought

# Twine
I had originally planned on rebuilding the website in html, copying it and repurposing it, however I discovered that it would have been much more tedious to trace my steps in how I would have rebuilt or copied the whole Concord website. To my understanding, one of the bigger difficulties with going this route would be having too many html files and having issues navigating between the html files locally, without an index. Twine on the other hand lets users navigate throughout its engine, and it only requires a single html, which would allow for ease of access in terms of preserving Digital History. Not to mention Twine can be accessed with any browser, instantly becoming a huge boon in regards to its accessibility. I had chosen to attempt to recreate the website through using Twine as the medium, and had made a recreation of the most important pages on the Concord website

The biggest issue I had while using Twine to recreate and preserve the Concord website for future Digital History usage was the pathing of certain pages. Having backwards movement would have been a nice addition, but given that there are multiple entries and each entry would need a drop down navigation bar, I had chosen to forgo adding this addition as it is ultimately also semi redundant, as refreshing the twine page brought me back to the first page. If I had more time, I would have opted for backwards movement and the ability to jump to whichever page that I had wished to use. Not to mention, finding alternative ways of preserving Digital History.

# Voyant Tools 

Much like how Tim Hitchcock explains in his Historyonics “Big Data for Dead People: Digital Readings and the Conundrums of Positivism” about how the creation of new Digital resources has dramatically changed the way we view history, the past. And in this new historically Digital era the ability to garnish all sorts and types of data into new and exciting pieces of knowledge and history becomes more and more probable. Though Tim Hitchcock claims that Historians are driven by technology rather than being served by it. I personally believe that technology will always lead according to the people, and not go astray from humanity, though this is only a stance I have right now due to little evidence proving that technology has gone astray. Much like what Tim Hitchcock had done in his example with Sarah, I had chosen to gather the XML of a particularly informative literature text regarding the politics of the Town of Concord, detailing the events that had occurred within the two years of 1855-1856. I had downloaded the XML via wget. 

Uploading this XML to Voyant led me to observe quite a lot of data , with Cirrus showing how the most frequent words in the corpus being concord (obviously), new, the dates 1855,1856 and emerson. The word new being very frequently mentioned did make me raise some eyebrows as it does seem like a weird word to appear so frequently, however upon doing some further digging, it seems to mainly just be an overly common adjective that was used infront of cities (New Hampshire, New England), nouns (political party, party) so that solved that mystery. The other outlier Emerson seemed to have been a teacher as the sentence “Emerson, Thoreau, Parker … lectured there every winter.“ 

The trends were of the same as what was shown via Cirrus, while the context tool gave great explanation as to why a term had shown up in the passage/report. Given the context, Emerson was seemingly a very well known teacher within Concord, having statues in their name. There were also 3 counts of slavery being mentioned, in which according to the context, in one case, Emerson, Thoreau, Parker and the Women’s anti slavery society had actively aided fugitive slaves in their trek towards Canada. Theodore Parker also seemed to have been the most popular political speaker and would actively make speeches regarding the nature of slavery.

The overall literature led me to believe that Concord was in fact a town which not only helped marginal groups, but also one that valued families, social talent and art through its art galleries. Most of the text did have a huge political emphasis, however overall the literature was very informative of the many events of which the town of Concord was able to experience.



# Maps from spreadsheets

Following up on the Spreadsheet map that was mentioned earlier, I had opted to download a .KMZ file for google earth. Following my logs for the maps tutorial, I had attempted to import the .kmz file onto google maps. The good part is that the importing part worked, but only due to a technicality. 
 
The spreadsheet information that the import put into google maps was not complete enough to generate a location on google maps, which led to a lot of frustration on my part. The map itself was supposed to be the old 1855-1856 time of Concord, however without the actual guidance of the parameters of the town, I could not accurately gauge the distance of how large the town was at that point in time. Then a sudden realization kicked in, if I couldn’t get it to work on google maps, why don’t I improvise and try just loading the broken file onto google earth even though I hadn’t used google earth since I was way younger. To my surprise, it had actually worked on the first try, navigating to earth.google.com allowed me to pull up the exact size of the town of Concord during 1855-1856.

Though I ran into some chrome issues that prevent me from saving the actual map as a file. Funny enough, it seems that the google earth api has the locations and calculations built in, but google maps does not seem to have such capabilities. For this case in particular, I’ve learned to think outside of the box.

# AntConc

Antconc as a tool provides very similar results to voyant tools, the main caveat that I’ve learned is that Antconc seems to only take into account .txt files, where as Voyant can handle a lot more text files such as xml. I’ve taken the same xml that I used for Voyant (sanborn2.xml) and turned it into a txt file (sanborn2 - Copy.txt)


Unfortunately regarding Antconc, I had gathered even less data than I did using Voyant. The biggest issue seems to be how I could only gather data by searching specific terms, whereas voyant seems to have a much more general, all seeing eye like the eye of sauron. Regrettably, due to my limitations in using this software, I was not able to garner any additional data that Voyant could not gather.

# Finishing up
Having explored this archived remnant of Digital History, I was able to discover the Journey of Concord throughout the year 1855-1856. 

Concord in 1855 was more than half the population of Concord in 1915, yet it was still an attractive destination to the world. Multiple innovations, geniuses and hard working laborers were found throughout the bustling town. There was a bit of a dispute in terms of political reach, as the nation was thrown into the fire due to the constant struggles between the issue with slavery, the upcoming election and the fear of another american revolution. By 1855, the town had repealed the Missouri Compromise and had turned every northern state against President Pierce, whos very own New Hampshire had went against his pro slavery policy. Multiple speakers such as Emerson, Thoreau, Parker, Edwin Whipple and the Women’s Anti-Slavery Society not only aided fugitive slaves on their dangerous trek towards Canada, but also help meetings and held lectures regarding the anti Slavery laws.

Taking a look into this archived digital resource has brought me more questions than answers, time would have been a boon to this task of further exploration, yet I cannot say that I am entirely 100% dissatisfied with my outcome. Though I would have to say I have plenty of alternative methods of Digital History exploration that I did not even attempt, specifically, many of the higher level tutorials in which I did not have enough time to explore. Ultimately, I’ve found the journey in exploring this archive truly fascinating and enjoyable. I would recommend myself attempting this once again but with more knowledge at my ready.
